# Assignment 4 - Random Sentence Generator

In this assignment, we are tasked to revolutionize student productivity by creating a application that randomly generates sentences for term papers, poetry and insults that students can insert into their assignments to fill up blank space.  The random sentences are generated by depending on JSON files that define grammar rules for this random language. For the sake of simplicity, we only generated one new grammar file for test cases, but the rest of the default provided grammar types provided were used, and no new grammars were created.

## Setup

There is one core dependency for this Java application to work, and that is a library that comes from the Apache Commons:

```
// https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.googlecode.json-simple/json-simple
```

You will need to make sure that this library is downloaded and available in your global java library for the application to work if running the application within an IDE or CLI.

## Make sure you are in assignment 4 folder when running the program in terminal!

## Usage

In order to run this application, you simply need to enter one argument at the commandline which is the full or implicit directory path to a folder containing JSON files:

```
java -jar RandomSentenceGenApp.jar ./json/
```

With this command line above, the application will launch and the user will see the following prompt menu:

## Based on the JSON grammar files in your own folder, the menu option names will be different

```
The following grammars are available :
[1] Insult Generator
[2] Poem Generator
[3] A sample grammar
[4] Term Paper Generator

Please enter a number corresponding to one of the options above, or 'q' to quit.
```
From here the user can type the interger value for the menu option corresponding to that grammar type file found in the defined directory. As long as the user inputs a valid integer within the range equal to the number of unique grammar files, the program will keep cycling and giving the user the choice of different sentences types. Finally, the application can be quit if the user inputs 'q'.  If any other letters or invalid numbers/characters are passed, then the application will fail with an error.

## Examples

Example command line arguments for generating emails from customer data:

```
java -jar RandomSentenceGenApp.jar ./json/

The following grammars are available :
[1] Insult Generator
[2] Poem Generator
[3] A sample grammar
[5] Term Paper Generator

Please enter a number corresponding to one of the options above, or 'q' to quit.
1
With the rage of a pissed-off Jabberwock , may a rancid hoard of crazed cockroaches find your buttocks suddenly delectable .

Enter a number corresponding to one of the menu options for another grammar, or 'q' to quit.
2
The big yellow flowers die warily tonight.

Enter a number corresponding to one of the menu options for another grammar, or 'q' to quit.
q
```

## Classes and Methods
#### Classes are in order of low-level to high level



## Assumptions and Edge Cases

1) We assumed that the user is running the application with a valid folder path to where only JSON files exist, otherwise the application will not execute.
2) Correspondingly, we assume that the grammar JSON files are all formatted the same, in that they contain a **grammarTitle**, **grammarDescription** and a **start** so that the program will be able to begin the recursive calls into the sub-grammar types, and store the respective properties in the Grammar class object.
3) The grammar files are assumed to be constructed in a way that they will have valid sub-types to reference. If a grammar type is not found, the application will notify the user that that path was not valid, but give them the option to try another building another sentence.
4) One special edge case we handle for is if the application throws a stackoverflow error. This would occur when a grammar type references itself or there is a loop between two grammar types, etc. For example, if the "start" was "<verb>", and the only verb in the "verb" grammar sub-type was "<verb>", this would create an infinite recusive call to the sub-type.
5) We also assume that the user will pass a valid input for the grammar files provided in the menu. For example, if there are four grammar JSON files, the user should input 1, 2, 3, or 4.  If they pass '5', which is out of index, then a helper method will return a false boolean value and prompt the user to try again. Likewise, if they pass 'a' or some other letter/character, then the helper will again pass a false boolean value and prompt the user to try again.
6) In order to test the main() method of the 'UserInterface.java' class and simulate user input, we had to make a modification to handle a second argument in the command line. If only the required first argument for the JSON folder path is provided, the application will run as normal. However, if 'q' is passed as a second paramter, then the application will enter into test mode, and quit immediately.  This call however allowed for some successful testing of the UserInterface class methods that take in user input.
7) Similarly to the above, 'SentenceGenerator.java' needed a paramter in the constructor method for the class to store a random seed or null.  If null is passed, then the program will pull a truly random result with different seeds each time. However, for testing purposes, if the consturctor includes a Long value for the seed, then the application will use a fixed random seed to call the same grammar list items using same random seed each time. This ensures reproduceability and stable testing.
